1. Architecture Design Recovery of a Family of
Embedded Software Systems
An Experience Report
Lars Bratthall and Per Runeson
Dept. of Communication Systems, Lund University, Sweden.
P.O. Box 118, S-221 00 Lund, Sweden.
Phone: +46-462229668., Fax +46-46145823. Email {lars.bratthalllper.runeson}@tts.lth.se.
Key words: Architectural design recovery, experience report, qualitative evaluation
Abstract: Understandability of the current system is a key issue in most reengineering
processes. An architecture description of the system may increase its
understandability. This paper presents experiences from architectural design
recovery in a product family of large distributed, embedded systems.
Automated recovery tools were hard to apply due to the nature of the source
code. A qualitative evaluation procedure was applied on the performance of
the recovery process. The results suggest that producing the necessary
architectural documentation during the recovery project costs eight to twelve
times as much as producing the same set of documentation during the original
development project. By applying a common architectural style for all
members of the product family, the component reuse made possible decreased
source code volume by 65%.

2. A Software Architecture Reconstruction Method
George Yanbing Guo1, Joanne M. Atlee1 & Rick Kazman2
1 Department of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, Canada
2Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, U.S.A
yguo@ se.math.uwaterloo.ca, jmatlee@dragon. uwaterloo.ca, rkazman@ sei.cmu. edu
Key words: Design recovery, reverse engineering, software architecture analysis, design
patterns, pattern recognition
Abstract: Changes to a software system during implementation and maintenance can
cause the architecture of a system to deviate from its documented architecture.
If design documents are to be useful , maintenance programmers must be able
to easily evaluate how closely the documents conform to the code they are
meant to describe. Software architecture recovery, which deals with the
extraction and analysis of a system's architecture, has gained more tool
support in the past few years. However, there is little research on developing
effective and efficient architectural conformance methods. In particular, given
the increasing emphasis on patterns and styles in the software engineering
community, a method needs to explicitly aid a user in identifying architectural
patterns.
This paper presents a semi-automatic method, called ARM (Architecture
Reconstruction Method), that guides a user in the reconstruction of software
architectures based on the recognition of patterns. Once the system' s actual
architecture has been reconstructed, we can analyze conformance of the
software to the documented design patterns.

3. Behaviour Analysis of Software Architectures
Jeff Magee, Jeff Kramer, and Dimitra Giannakopoulou
Department of Computing, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine,
180 Queensgate, London, SW7 2BZ, U.K.
{jnm,dgl,jkj@doc.ic.ac.uk
Key words: Software architecture, behaviour analysis
Abstract: The overall structure of a system described by a set of components and their
interconnections is termed its software architecture. In this paper, we associate
behavioural specifications with components and use these specifications to
analyze the overall system architecture . The approach is based on the use of
Labelled Transition Systems to specify behaviour and Compositional
Reachability Analysis to check composite system models. The architecture
description of a system is used directly in the construction of the model used
for analysis. Analysis allows a designer to check whether an architecture
satisfies the properties required of it. The paper uses examples to illustrate the
approach and discusses some open questions arising from the work.

4. Rearchitecting Legacy Systems-Concepts and Case
Study
Wolfgang Pree1 & Kai Koskirnies2
1University of Constance, Gennany & 2Nokia Research Center, Helsinki, Finland
pree@acm.org, kai.koskimies@ research.nokia.com
Key words: Creation and evolution of architectures, product line architectures, framelets,
automated configuration, dynamic architectures
Abstract: Legacy systems, no matter which architectural style they rely on, contain
numerous pieces of source code with very similar functionality. We see these
system aspects as a good starting point for rearchitecting legacy systems. The
goal is the evolution of the legacy system architecture towards a product line
architecture which incorporates the originally replicated system aspects as
reusable, ideally self-configuring components. This paper presents the
concepts which we regard as necessary and/or useful for such an evolution:
Framelets form small architectural building blocks that can be easily
understood, modified and combined. Reflection together with a high-level
definition of semantic aspects allow the construction of partially selfconfiguring
components. A case study corroborates that this constitutes a
viable approach for rearchitecting legacy systems in practice.

5. Checking the Correctness of Architectural
Transformation Steps via Proof-Carrying
Architectures
R. A. Riemenschneider
Computer Science Laboratory, SRI International, Menlo Park, CA, USA
rar@csl.sri.com
Key words: Software architectures, architecture hierarchies, transformation, refinement
verification, proof-carrying architectures
Abstract: The end product of architecting is an architectural hierarchy, a collection of
architectural descriptions linked by mappings that interpret the more abstract
descriptions in the more concrete descriptions. Formalized transformational
approaches to architecture refinement and abstraction have been proposed.
One argument in favor of formalization is that it can result in architectural
implementations that are guaranteed to be correct, relative to the abstract
descriptions. If these are correct with respect to one another, conclusions
obtained by reasoning from an abstract architectural description will also apply
to the implemented architecture. But this correctness guarantee is achieved by
requiring that the implementer use only verified transformations, i.e., ones that
have been proven to produce correct results when applied. This paper explores
an approach that allows the implementer to use transformations that have not
been proven to be generally correct, without voiding the correctness guarantee.
Checking means determining that application of the transformation produces
the desired result. It allows the use of transformations that have not been
generally verified, even ones that are known to sometimes produce incorrect
results, by showing that they work in the particular case.

6. Developing Dependable Systems Using Software
Architecture
Titos Saridakis & Valerie Issamy
INRIA/IR/SA, Campus de Beaulieu, 35042 Rennes Cedex, France
{ saridaki, Valerie.Issamy}@ irisa.fr
Abstract: The construction of dependable software systems is recognized as a complex task:
the system developer has to address the usage of fault tolerance techniques in
addition to the design of the functional aspects that are specific to the system. This
paper proposes a framework aimed at easing the development of dependable
systems by providing software designers with a repository of dependable software
architectures. A dependable software architecture shows how to integrate a fault
tolerance technique with a given system so as to make the system dependable.
Furthermore, the dependability behaviors of architectures are formally specified,
which allows to unambiguously interpreting the various fault tolerance techniques
as well as to organize the repository of corresponding architectures into a
refinement-based lattice structure.
Key words: Dependability, formal specification, software architecture, software reuse,
specification refinement.

7. Specification and Refinement of Dynamic Software
Architectures
Calos Canal, Emesto PimenteP, Jose M. Troya
Depto. de Lenguajes y Ciencias de Ia Computaci6n, Universidad de Malaga, Spain
E-mail: {canal, emesto, troyaj@lcc.uma.es
Key words: Software architecture, architecture description languages, 7t-calculus,
compatibility, inheritance of behaviour, prototyping
Abstract: Several notations and languages for software architectural specification have
been recently proposed. However, some important aspects of composition,
extension, and reuse deserve further research. These problems are particularly
relevant in the context of open systems, where system structure can evolve
dynamically, either by incorporating new components, or by replacing existing
components with compatible ones. Our approach tries to address some of these
open problems by combining the use of formal methods, particularly process
algebras, with concepts coming from the object-oriented domain. In this paper
we present LEDA, an Architecture Description Language for the specification,
validation, prototyping and construction of dynamic software systems.
Systems specified in LEDA can be checked for compatibility, ensuring that the
behaviour of their components conforms to each other and that the systems can
be safely composed. A notion of polymorphism of behaviour is used to extend
and refine components while maintaining their compatibility, allowing the
parameterisation of architectures, and encouraging reuse of architectural
designs.

8. Modeling Software Architectures and Styles with
Graph Grammars and Constraint Solving
Dan Hirsch, Paola Inverardi, and Ugo Montanari
Departamento de Computai6n, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pab.l,
(1428), Buenos Aires, Argentina, dhirsch@dc.uba.ar
Dip. Di Mat. Pura ed Applicata, Universita dell 'Aquila, Via Vetoio, Localita' Coppito, L'Aquila,
ltalia, inverard@univaq.it
Dipartimento di Informatica, Universita di Pisa, Corso ltalia 40, (56125), Pisa, ltalia,
ugo@di.unipi.it
Key words: Architectural descriptions, graph rewriting, styles, dynamic architectures,
reconfiguration
Abstract: A software architecture style is a class of architectures exhibiting a common
pattern. The description of a style must include the structure model of the
components and their interactions (i.e., structural topology), the Jaws
governing the dynamic changes in the architecture, and the communication
pattern. A simple and natural way to describe a system is by using graphs, and
as an extension of this, by using grammars to describe styles. The construction
and dynamic evolution of the style will be represented as context-free
productions and graph rewriting. To model the evolution of the system we use
techniques of constraint solving already applied in the representation of
distributed systems. From this approach we obtain an intuitive way to model
systems, and a unique language to describe the style (but still a clear
separation of coordination and configuration). With these we have a direct way
of following the evolution of the system and proving its properties.

9. Describing Software Architecture with UML
C. Hofmeister, R. L. Nord, D. Soni
Siemens Corporate Research, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
{chofmeister, mord, dsonij@scr.siemens.com
Key words: Software architecture, UML, architecture descriptions, multiple views
Abstract: This paper describes our experience using UML, the Unified Modeling
Language, to describe the software architecture of a system. We found that it
works well for communicating the static structure of the architecture: the
elements of the architecture, their relations, and the variability of a structure.
These static properties are much more readily described with it than the
dynamic properties. We could easily describe a particular sequence of
activities, but not a general sequence. In addition, the ability to show peer-topeer
communication is missing from UML.

10. Assessing the Suitability of a Standard Design Method
for Modeling Software Architectures
Nenad Medvidovic and David S. Rosenblum
Department of Information and Computer Science
University of California, Irvine
Irvine, CA 92697-3425, U.S.A.
{neno,dsr}@ics.uci.edu
Key words: Software architecture, architectural style, object-oriented design, architecture
description languages, Unified Modeling Language
Abstract: Software architecture descriptions are high-level models of software systems.
Most existing special-purpose architectural notations have a great deal of
expressive power but are not well integrated with common development
methods. Conversely, mainstream development methods are accessible to
developers, but lack the semantics needed for extensive analysis. In our
previous work, we described an approach to combining the advantages of
these two ways of modeling architectures. While this approach suggested a
practical strategy for bringing architectural modeling into wider use, it
introduced specialized extensions to a standard modeling notation, which
could also hamper wide adoption of the approach. This paper attempts to
assess the suitability of a standard design method "as is " for modeling
software architectures

11. Software Architecture and Java Beans
Sylvia Stuurman
Delft University of Technology
Department of Computer Science,
P.O. Box 356, 2600AJ The Netherlands
S.Stuurman@twi.tudelft.nl
Key words: Java Beans, software architecture, component based development
Abstract: In theory, software architecture and component-based development make an
ideal match: the concerns of software architecture are high level design,
interaction, and configuration of components, while component-based
development is centered on the implementation and specification of reusable
components.
Together, these concerns seem to be the yin and yang for the development of
complex systems out of existing components. However, several authors have
already explained that in reality, there is a gap between the two areas. In this
paper, we investigate the relation between Java Beans and a software
architecture description : may Java Beans simply be used as ready-to-use
implementations of a software architecture? What restrictions do they impose
on the software architecture? Where are the mismatches?

12. Architectural Styles as Adaptors1
Don Batory i, Yannis Smaragdakis; & Lou Coglianese;;
Department of Computer Sciences, The University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712 i &
LGA, /nc. ,/2500 Fair Lakes Circle, Suite 130, Fairfax, Virginia ii
{batory, smaragdj@cs.utexas.edu, lou@lga-inc.com
Keywords: architectural styles, product-line architectures, GenVoca model, adaptors, software
refinements, program transformations.
Abstract: The essence of architectural styles is component communication. In this paper, we
relate architectural styles to adaptors in the Gen Voca model of software construction. GenVoca
components are refinements that have a wide range of implementations, from binaries
to rule-sets of program transformation systems. We explain that architectural styles can (I)
be understood as refinements (like other GenVoca components) and (2) that they are generalizations
of the 00 concept of adaptors. By implementing adaptors as program transformations,
complex architectural styles can be realized in GenVoca that simply could not be
expressed using less powerful implementation techniques (e.g., object adaptors). Examples
from avionics are given.

13. Attribute-Based Architecture Styles
Mark H. Klein, Rick Kazman, Len Bass, Jeromy Carriere, Mario Barbacci, and
Howard Lipson
Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
{mk, rkazman, ljb, sjc, mrb, hjlj@sei.cmu.edu
Key words: Architecture, architecture styles, quality attributes
Abstract: Architectural styles have enjoyed widespread popularity in the past
few years, and for good reason: they represent the distilled wisdom of
many experienced architects and guide less experienced architects in
designing their architectures. However, architectural styles employ
qualitative reasoning to motivate when and under what conditions they
should be used. In this paper we present the concept of an ABAS
(Attribute-Based Architectural Style) which includes a set of
components and connectors along with their topology, but which adds
to this a quality attribute specific model that provides a method of
reasoning about the behavior of component types that interact in the
defined pattern. We will define ABASs in this paper, show how they
are used, and argue for why this extension to the notion of architectural
style is an important step toward creating a true engineering discipline
of architectural design.

14. A Framework for Describing Software Architectures
for Reuse�
Ezra Kaahwa Mugisa1 and TomS. E. Maibaum2
1 Department of Mathematics and Computer Science; University of the West Indies (Mona);
Kingston 7, Jamaica; phone/fax: +876 977 1810; e-mail: ekmugisa@uwimona.edu.jm:
2 Department of Computing; Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine; /80
Queen's Gate, London SW7 2BZ, UK; phone: +44171 594 8274;fa.x : +44 171 5818024;
e-mail: tsem@doc.ic.ac.uk
Key words: Systematic softwate reuse, softwate atchitectures, object calculus, category
theory, component, interconnection, objects, patterns
Abstract: We present a formal description of softwate atchitectures for softwate reuse to
support a view of systematic softwate reuse as the plugging of components
into an architecture. The components ate object descriptions in the object
calculus. Interconnection between the components is defined via
synchronisation morphisms within a framework based on category theory.
Component composition is defined via the pushout construction, giving the
atchitecture as a "calculated" component, from which the atchitecture's
properties may be derived. We show that the architectures described ate
reusable in our Reuse Triplet that forms the motivation for our on-going work
on systematic softwate reuse. This work provides further support for the
suggestion that category theory provides the appropriate level of mathematical
abstraction to describe softwate atchitectures.

15. Modeling Software Architecture Using DomainSpecific
Patterns
J. P. Riegel, C. Kaesling, and M. Schiitze
Dep. of Computer Science, University of Kaiserslautem, Germany,
{riegel, kaesling, schuetze}@informatik.uni-kl.de
Keywords: architectural design patterns, domain-specific modeling support, code
generation
Abstract: In this paper we present a domain-specific modeling approach for application
components. We use class diagrams and design patterns as major modeling
notations and utilize code generation techniques to create an application.
Certain architectural aspects of these applications can explicitly be modeled
using concrete versions of architectural patterns. As an example, an
adaptation of the Pipes and Filters pattern (see Buschmann et al ., 1996) is
presented, which can be used as an architectural modeling entity and which is
supported by a code generator for automatic implementation of different data
flow mechanisms.

16. ImageBuilder Software
A Framework Development Experience Report
Dwayne Towell
ImageBuilder Software
6650 SW Redwood Lane, Suite 200
Portland, OR 97224
dwayne@imagebuilder. com
Key words: Framework, experience, object-oriented, cross-platform, multimedia, reuse,
education, domain, team, architects, development
Abstract: Six years ago lmageBuilder Software chose to develop an object-oriented ,
cross-platform, multimedia framework to promote code reuse and therefore
increase profits. Today, it continues to be used and extended; it is profitable
and a major company asset. This paper documents how it was developed,
describes how we use it today, evaluates its success, and makes
recommendations for others based on our experience

17. Event-Based Execution Architectures for Dynamic
Software Systems
James Vera, Louis Perrochon, David C. Luckham
Computer Systems Laboratory
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305, USA
{vera,perrochon,dclj@pavg.stanford.edu
Key words: Evolutionary software architectures, software artifacts, component
engineering.
Abstract: Distributed systems' runtime behavior can be difficult to understand.
Concurrent, distributed activity make notions of global state difficult to grasp.
We focus on the runtime structure of a system, its execution architecture, and
propose representing its evolution as a partially ordered set of predefined
architectural event types. This representation allows a system's topology to be
visualized, analyzed and constrained. The use of a predefined event types
allows the execution architectures of different systems to be readily compared

18. Evolution and Composition of Reusable Assets in
Product-Line Architectures: A Case Study
Jan Bosch
University of Karlskrona/Ronneby
Department of Computer Science and Business Administration
S-372 25 Ronneby, Sweden
e-mail: Jan.Bosch@ide.hk-r.se
www:http://www.ide.hk-r.sel-bosch
Key words: Reusable assets, product-line architectures, software composition, software
evolution, case study
Abstract: In this paper, a case study investigating the experiences from evolution and
modification of reusable assets in product-line architectures is presented
involving two Swedish companies, Axis Communications AB and Securitas
Larm AB. Key persons in these organisations have been interviewed and
information has been collected from documents and other sources. The study
identified problems related to multiple versions of reusable assets,
dependencies between assets and the use of assets in new contexts. The
problem causes have been identified and analysed, including the early
intertwining of functionality, the organizational model, the time to market
pressure, the lack of economic models and the lack of encapsulation
boundaries and required interfaces.

19. Flexibility of the ComB AD* Architecture
N.H. Lassing, D.B.B. Rijsenbrij and J.C. van Vliet
Vrije Universiteit, Faculty of Sciences
De Boelelaan 1081a, 1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
tel: +31 (0)20 44 47769,/ax: +31 (0)20 44 47653
e-mail: {nlassing, daan, hans}@cs.vu.nl
Key words: Software architecture, software frameworks, software quality, quality
assessment, flexibility, adaptability, portability, reusability
Abstract: Software architecture is nowadays regarded as the first step to achieving
software quality. The architect's main task is to translate quality requirements
into a software architecture. An important step is to assess whether the
architecture actually satisfies these quality requirements. The purpose of this
paper is to explore which architectural choices support flexibility and how
flexibility can be assessed. To that end, we explored the ComB AD
architecture, whose main objective is flexibility. We investigated the
architectural choices made and assessed whether flexibility was achieved. This
will not only increase our insight into flexibility in general, but particularly
into the assessment of this quality attribute. We use the term flexibility in the
broadest sense of the word: to denote adaptability, portability and reusability.
Adaptability can be regarded as flexibility in the narrow sense, portability as
the flexibility to use a system in various technical environments, and
reusability as the flexibility to reuse part of a system in another system.

20. Medical Product Line Architectures
12 years of experience
B.J. Pronk
Philips Medical Systems
P.O. Box 10,000, 5600 DA Best, The Netherlands
bpronk@best.ms.philips.com
Key words: Example architectures, product line architectures, styles and patterns
Abstract: The product line architectures for diagnostic imaging equipment like CT. MRI
and conventional X-Ray have to cope with large variations (in hardware and
application functions) combined with a high level of integration between their
embedded applications. Therefore a primary goal of these architectures is to
avoid monolithic applications while retaining the required integrated
behaviour. Furthermore, an easy and independent variation of the constituting
components is essential. The product line architecture described in this paper
gives one recent example solution to this problem. This example presents a
layered, event-driven, resource-restricted system based on the model-viewcontroller
pattern. Its technical implementation relies heavily on state of the art
desktop (Windows NTTM) and component techniques (DCOM). For this
architecture, orthogonality and (binary) variation have been the key design
goals. Three views of this architecture-the conceptual, technical, and process
models-are discussed. In all three views the rationale of the chosen concepts
and their relation to the problems indicated above is shown.

21. Kaleidoscope
A Reference Architecture for Monitoring and Control Systems
Andrea Savigni, Francesco Tisato
DSI Universita di Milano
Via Comelico 39/41 20153 Milano, Italy
emails: {savigniitisato}@dsi.unimi.it
voice: +39 2 55006231
fax: +39 2 55006249
Key words: Software architecture, monitoring and control systems, connectors, strategy,
object orientation
Abstract: Although monitoring and control systems can be applied to a great variety of
application domains, they exhibit a number of common characteristics,
particularly the extensive use of abstraction layers and information streams.
This paper presents a reference architecture upon which a number of
monitoring and control systems for a wide range of application domains can be
designed. The architecture is described in terms of components and
connectors, and the UML methodology is employed to specify class diagrams.
The architecture is specifically conceived to be made of reusable components;
to that aim, a clear separation is made between information components and
strategic components, so that the former can be reused under different
strategies. Conceptual images are information components that model
concepts of the application domain, and are specialised in terms of concrete
images, such as acquisition, processing, and presentation. The major task of
the system is to align concrete images, which takes place via transfer of
objects (facets) through particular connectors (projectors). This mechanism
allows construction of systems where very little is hard-coded at compile time,
and a lot is left to configuration, which can usually be performed by a domain
expert rather than a software engineer.

22. Segregating the Layers of Business Information
Systems
An interface-based approach
Johannes Siedersleben 1, Gerhard Albers2, Peter Fuchs 1, Johannes Weigend 1
1 University of Applied Sciences of Rosenheim, Marienberger Str. 26, D-83024 Rosenheim,
Germany; +49/806719122 (phone), +491806719123 (fax)
2Software Design & Management, Thomas-Dehler-Str. 27, D-81737 Munich, Germany;
+49189163812-0 (phone), +49/89163812-150 (fax)
johannes.siedersleben@ t-online.de
Key words: Business information systems, external representations, interfaces, layers,
reusability
Abstract: This paper presents a refined layered architecture for business information
systems of any size. It allows a strict separation of application logic, database
access, and user interface and is largely independent of programming
languages, database management systems, operating systems, and middleware.

23. Security Issues with the Global Command and
Control System (GCCS)
Shawn A. Butler
Computer Scien ce Department, Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
shawn. butler@ cs.cmu. edu
Key words: Architecture, security, command and control, common operating environment ,
COE,GCCS
Abstract: The Global Command and Control System (GCCS) was one of the most
ambitious and largest software integration tasks in the history of the
Department of Defense. As the Chief Systems Engineer for GCCS , I found
architectural differences among command and control systems presented
unique integration and interoperability challenges. In this paper I present 3
security-related examples of specific problems I encountered when I attempted
to integrate several system s into GCCS. I also discuss the problem of systemlevel
security analysis and introduce a framework that software engineers can
use to evaluate security .

24. Architecture for Software Construction by Unrelated
Developers
W.M. Gentleman
National Research Council, Institute for Information Technology, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
phone (613) 993-90/0,fax(613) 952-0074,
e-mail Morven. Gentleman@ /IT. NRC. CA
Keywords: Software architecture, COTS, unrelated developers
Abstract: Suppose one COTS (Commercial Off the SheiO software supplier provides an
interpreter for a problem oriented language, another provides an application
generator for producing numerical solvers for a class of partial differential
equations, and a third produces a visualization package. A team of domain
specialists writes scripts in the problem-oriented language to define cases to be
solved, uses the application generator to produce an appropriate solver, solves
the generated PDE, and uses the visualization package to analyze the results
and adjust the description of cases. Such examples illustrate that large and
long-lived software systems can result from the combined efforts of various
unrelated development organizations, organizations not even known to one
another. No single design authority, to which the others report, has overall
system responsibility. Such examples also illustrate the importance of
including in software architecture the relationships between entities that exist
and are used during the construction process, instead of focusing only on
relationships between entities that exist at run time. The needs for software
architecture for such systems are not well met by the existing literature.

25. Integration of Heterogenous Software Architectures -
An Experience Report
Volker Gruhn, Ursula Wellen
University of Dortmund, Software Technology, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany
( gruhn, wellenj@helsinki.informatik.uni-dortmund.de
Key words: Software architecture, database integration, distributed objects, components,
migration, software landscape
Abstract: In this article we describe our experience with a software migration project in
a telecommunication company. We started from a set of heterogeneous
software systems (described by rather different types of software architectures)
and we defined a migration path towards an integrated software architecture.
On this path several intermediate versions of the software architecture were
implemented. We discuss the purpose of these intermediate versions and the
problems encountered in the migration path.

26. Structural Analysis of the Software Architecture - A
Maintenance Assessment Case Study
Catherine Blake Jaktman, John Leaney, and Ming Liu
Computer Systems Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Technology, Sydney,
Australia
{cjaktman, jleaney, mliu} @eng.uts.edu.au
Key words: Software architecture, software evolution, maintenance measurements,
experience report, architectural erosion.
Abstract: Architectural erosion is a sign of reduced architectural quality. Quality
characteristics of an architecture, such as its ability to accommodate change,
are critical for an evolving product. The structure of an architecture is said to
be eroded when the software within the architecture becomes resistant to
change or changes become risky and time consuming. The objective of our
work is to understand the signs of architectural erosion that contribute to
decreased maintainability. A maintenance assessment case study is described
in which we apply structural measurements to a product to determine signs of
architectural erosion. It provides an understanding of a product's quality by
examining the structure of its architecture. The ability to assess architectural
erosion in an evolving software product allows the quality of the architecture
to be monitored to ensure its business and maintenance goals are achieved.

27. Architectural Evolution
Nokia Mobile Phone Case
Juha Kuusela
Nokia Research Center, Helsinki, Finland
juha.kuusela@ research.nokia.com
Key words: Architectural evolution, product family, and organization.
Abstract: Similar software products can be developed as a product family. Common
architecture, addressing all common requirements of products in the family,
provides the basis for wide scale reuse within the family. When independent
products continue their evolution, they face new requirements that may prove
to have wider scope and need addressing at the family level. However,
changes on the family level may be very costly for the product projects. Our
experience shows that architectural evolution is possible and practical if each
change has been carefully planned, taking into account its organizational
aspects. Then the change has to be carried out so that the product line does not
stop. Large architectural changes are high-risk operations; even when they
succeed, they tend to take much longer than expected.

28. Building Systems from Parts in the Real World
Everything's Possible, But Nothing is Easy
Roy R Wei!
Michael Baker Corporation, 4301 Dutch Ridge Road, Beaver, PA 15009
WeilR@acm.org
Key words: Component reuse, software integration, component packaging, configuration
management
Abstract: As manager of the software support group for a full-service civil engineering
firm, my major challenge is in composing project-specific software solutions
from pre-existing parts. Too often, the available parts are not quite right for
the task; or the parts work individually but make incompatible assumptions
about interaction, representation, or other aspects of integration; or a solution
works on prototypes but does not scale up for production. For seven example
cases, I describe the architectural integration problems and what we did about
them. None of the specific examples presents a major challenge- my real
problem is that each such example must currently be solved as a special case.
The architecture research community could help me most by developing
general methods and tools to help me identify and resolve these integration
problems systematically and routinely.

29. Architectural Concerns in Automating Code
Generation
L. F. Andrade, J. C. Gouveia, P. J. Xardone and J. A. Camara
OBLOG Software S.A.
Alameda Antonio Sergio 7- 1 A, 2795 Linda-a-Velha, Portugal
{landrade, jgouveia, pxardone, jcamara} @oblog.pt,
tel: +351-14146930, fax:+351-I-4144125
Key words: Code generation, object-oriented modelling, contract-based architectural style
Abstract: We report on the problems (and solutions) that we have been facing in
defining an architecture that enables us to automatically synthesise production
code (COBOL, CICS, SQL) from a higher level specification language that
includes both primitives that handle business and architectural requirements.
Our experience has been drawn from a real-life project in the banking industry
where object-oriented models for large-scale projects were used. With these
models, the application architecture was conceived to be robust to change,
accommodating new behaviour in a systematic and encapsulated way.

30. The MBASE Life Cycle Architecture Milestone
Package
No Architecture Is An Island
Barry Boehm, Dan Port, Alexander Egyed, and Marwan Abi-Antoun
Center for Software Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089
{boehm, dport, aegyed, marwan}@sunset.usc.edu
Key words: Software architecture, systems architecting, architecture evaluation, modelbased
development, rationale capture.
Abstract: This paper summarizes the primary criteria for evaluating software/system
architectures in terms of key system st.akeholders' concerns. It describes the
Model Based Architecting and Software Engineering (MBASE) approach for
concurrent definition of a system's architecture, requirements, operational
concept, prototypes, and life cycle plans. It summarizes our experiences in
using and refining the MBASE approach on 31 digital library projects. It
concludes that a Feasibility Rationale demonstrating consistency and
feasibility of the various specifications and plans is an essential part of the
architecture' s definition, and presents the current MBASE annotated outline
and guidelines for developing such a Feasibility Rationale.

31. Software Architecture at Siemens:
The challenges, our approaches, and some open issues
Lothar Borrmann and Frances Newbery Paulisch
Siemen s AG, Corporate Technology, Software and Engineering,
D-81730 Munich, Germany .
Lothar.Borrman@mchp.siemens.de, Francis .Paulisch@mchp .siemens.de
Key words: Software architecture, software process, frameworks , architecture assessment,
product families, evolution of software architectures
Abstract: The importance of software architecture in the design of large software
systems is unquestioned in both the academic and industrial software
engineering communities. At Siemens, software is an important , often
dominant, factor in the success of our products and this trend towards softwa re
is increasing as software becomes even more prevalent in our product
spectrum. Our experience indicates clearly that attention to three aspects - to
people, to process , and, in particular, to architecture - are important for
successful product developments. This paper lists some of the challenges that
we face in the area of software architecture, what approaches we have taken
as well as a set of issues that require further attention in future .

32. Architectural Design to Meet Stakeholder
Requirements
L. Chung1, D. Gross 2 & E. Yu 2
1 Computer S cience Program, University ofTe:ms, Dallas, USA &
1 Faculty of Information Studies, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
chung@utdallas.edu, (gross, yuj@jis.utoronto.ca
Key words: Software architecture, rationale, stakeholders, organization modeling,
requirements, quality attributes, architectural properties, non-functional
requirements, process-oriented, softgoal, satisficing, design re asoning
Abstract: Architectural design occupies a pivotal position in software engineering . It is
during architectural design that crucial requirements such as performance,
reliability, costs, etc ., must be addressed . Yet the task of achieving these
properties remains a difficult one and it is made even more difficult with the
shift in software engineering paradigm from monolithic , stand-alone, builtfrom-
scratch systems to componentized, evolvable, standards-based, and
product line oriented systems. Many well-established design strategies need to
be reconsidered as new requirements such as evolvability, reusability, time-tomarket,
etc., become more important. This paper outlines an approach that
formulates architectural properties such as modifiability and performance as
" softgoals" which are incrementally refined. Tradeoffs are made as conflicts
and synergies are discovered. Architectural decisions are traced to
stakeholders and their dependency relationships. Knowledge-based tool
support for the process would provide guidance during design as well as
records of design rationales to facilitate understanding and change
management.

33. The Software Architect
-and the Software Architecture Team
Philippe Kruchten
Rational Software, 650 West 41st Avenue #638, Vancouver, B.C., V5Z 2M9 Canada
pbk@ rational. com
Key words: Architecture, architect, team, process
Abstract: Much has been written recently about software architecture, how to represent
it, and where design fits in the software development process. In this article I
will focus on the people who drive this effort: the architect or a team of
architects-the software architecture team. Who are they, what special skills
do they have, how do they organise themselves, and where do they fit in the
project or the organisation?

34. Aspect Design with the Building Block Method
Jtirgen K. Miiller
Philips Research Laboratories, Prof Holstlaan 4 (WLp ), NL - 5656 AA Eindhoven
mueller@ nat lab. research. com
Key words: Software architecture, software component, object-oriented modelling,
function-oriented modelling, design method
Abstract: Aspects are a way to supplement object-oriented modelling with functionoriented
modelling. The Building Block Method (BBM) identifies 3
dimensions of independent design. Besides an object dimension and a process
dimension also an aspect dimension is present. Object design, process design
and function design are done independently. Building Blocks (BB), which are
software components, cluster functionality according to criteria such as
configurability in a product family and incremental system integration. The
BBM is used to design families of telecommunication infrastructure, digital
broadcasting and medical imaging systems. The paper introduces the concept
of aspects and shows how they are identified and used in the BBM.

